- Stuff no-one cares about, whoami etc
## TIMELINE SLIDE 
- Going to present to you a brief timeline of the Sims games if you're not familiar, as well as a couple of major players within the Sims community 
- First, let's go to 1989, when the Sims series was born with the release of SimCity. Maxis, the creators of SimCity, wanted to explore what a game would be like that allowed you to build your own city. It was hugely popular and helped to spawn an entire series of Sims games - if I listed them all the timeline would take up half the talk, and that's not what what we're here for! There were games in the SimCity series, SimAnt, SimEarth...
- A game focusing on the people who lived inside SimCity, known as Sims, was in development since 1991, when Will Wright (the main who came up with the Sims) lost his house in a wildfire, and got inspired by the process of rebuilding his house. It was offically announced in early 1999 via a trailer included with SimCity 3000, and excitement quickly grew for this new offering from Maxis. Fansites were created in order to discuss The Sims, including The Sims Resource, which was founded in this year. Remember this name, as they will be important later. Maxis encouraged this new community, by releasing modding tools even before the game was released, which the community gladly embraced and these new fansites hosted many of these mods even before the game came out. 
- Also in this year, LiveJournal was founded, which would become a major hub for the Sims community in the mid to late 2000s. 
- We then proceed on to the year 2000, when the world was supposed to end with the Y2K bug and judging by the current state of the world, maybe it should have, and a little game known as The Sims was released. Don't know what happened to it and we never heard from it again... 
- In all seriousness this was the game that launched many expansion packs and the entire Sims series that is still going on to this day.
- 4 years later, The Sims 2 was released, changing from the original's isometric perspective to a fully 3D camera, and focused on playing a family through the generations by adding in more life stages over the first game's 2.5 and aging. This was just, if not more popular than the first fame, and a modding community also formed around it, with Mod the Sims 2 (now just Mod the Sims) being created earlier in the same year before its' release. 
- Much like TSR, it would become a major place for the community to upload their mods. I'd also just like to note that the Sims 2 is the best in the series, and I am not biased just because I used to mod for it! If you disagree, you are wrong and I don't make the rules. 
- Soon after, in 2007 Tumblr was created, which would serve as one of the main hubs for the Sims community in the early 2010's and is still is to this day, providing an easy-to-set up place for people to upload their mods without dealing with uploading to the main modding hubs like TSR or MTS or making their own website. In fact back in the day, I had a LiveJournal, a Dreamwidth (fork of LJ that was created when it was bought by a Russian oligarch) and a Tumblr, and before any of yous ask no you cannot have the links. You don't want to read what I was writing when I was 14 to my early 20s and I don't want to relive that period either! Many good times were had with my legally accquired Photoshop and 3D modeling programs. 
- Moving on, the Sims series continued to advance with the release of Sims 3 in 2009, which focused on the world around the Sims, and Sims 4 in 2014, which served as a soft reboot of the series and our main focus for today!
- You will also see here that I've mentioned "The Incident" in scare quotes at the end of this timeline. This was brought up at the start of my research about what we're going to talk about today and I would liken it to the old Greek legend of Pandora's Box, where the titular Pandora got very curious and opened a jar that unleashed pestlience and other bad things on the world, but the last remaining thing in the box was hope. This is similar as it unleashed what particularly nasty things could be done with Sims 4 mods and the malware potential they had. We will come back to this later, after going over some more history. 
## HISTORY SLIDE
- Like I said before, Maxis and then EA have always been supportive of the modding community - if you see games like Skyrim, Obilvion, Minecraft, Baldurs' Gate 3 etc they have been games that have been kept alive for a long time thanks to their modding communities, and the Sims is no exception. I believe that there are still mods being created for the Sims 1 even now, and the Sims 2 community is still creating mods to this day. Even in the Sims 4 era, EA even has creators create their own packs for them.
- They even released tools for the community before the game released such as Homecrafter for Sims 1 and BodyShop for the Sims 2 to help create hype for the game before they even released.
- Like I said before, the community grew rapidly, either by creating their own fansites, uploading to a mod hub such as TSR or MTS, or joining the communities over at first LiveJournal and then Tumblr.
- There was an important change made with the release of Sims 4 - they used XML Tuning to store data, as well as a certain programming language which I swear is relevant to our interests here at Pycon which I will show soon! 
- Modders made their own scripts but they needed a way to share them nicely - so they created a new file type called ts4script, which then EA added support for offically. 
## TS4SCRIPT SLIDE
- Now you might be asking - what's a ts4script file and what's this scripting language that you're being so coy about. Lemme show you something...
- You might be wondering why I'm using unzip on this file. It's bascially a fancy zip file, and it's contents may look slightly familiar...
- It's all Python, a mixture of complied Python and regular old python, and if I open one of these files in vim....
- I picked a random mod off Mod the Sims. As you can see, it doesn't look too much different from a regular old Python file you might encounter as part of our day-to-day. There's some game related imports, but still it's regular old Python.
- You may also be wondering why I'm emphasising the fact that it's just regular old Python so much. It's because it's important to note that we can do anything in these files the same as we can with any scripts we write - while it should just focus and be limited on game behaviour it can have wide reaching effects. For example, you can access the filesystem, create new files or make requests out to the wider internet. All of these can be misused in the hands of a bad actor. 
- Now, most mod authors do not misuse this - if mod authors need to reach out to the internet it's mostly to tell the user either there's an error with the mod (and to report it via things like Discord) or that there's a new update out. But we have to remember that there is a potential for these features to be misued, as we will see in the story I promised we'd go back to....
## THE INCIDENT SLIDE
- I've kind of built this up here, because it's important to cover.
- It bascially opened the floodgates to what ts4script files could do, and when doing my initial research others agreed with my view. 
- It orgininated as an argument between two modders, which from my time in the community is pretty common. However this situation differs from the usual scraps that modders get into. 
- This involved two modders called Turbodriver who is very well known within the Sims 4 modding community for making NSFW mods and another indivdual known as ColonelNutty, who was accused of allegedly making mods that enabled abuse towards children and pets.
- ColonelNutty in making these distasteful mods took some of Turbodriver's code without permission, in fact Turbodriver told him not to use their code because they were so disgusted by his mods and behaviour. Despite this express wish of not wanting to use their code to help make these mods, ColonelNutty went ahead anyway.
- In relaliation, Turbodriver made a function in a new version of one of their mods, that if it detected any of ColonelNutty's or other modders' mods that enabled abuse within the same mod folder, it would replace functions that these mods shared with an empty function that did and returned nothing, essentially breaking those mods, only causing errors like in the next screen (this is not the exact error but something similiar would have appeared) 
- After this was revealed to the public, Turbodriver apologised, and they stated that it was never their intention to make malware, which this technically was as it broke other mods outside its own scope on purpose. 
- While this incident was forgotten until of the main malware incidents occured in January 2024, it effectively opened the floodgates to what was possible in reagards to the malicious potential that these scripting mods could have. It went under the radar, but if the community had paid a bit more attention, maybe this first incident that I'm about to cover wouldn't have been such a surprise.
## TIMELINE OF THE MALWARE SLIDE
- Now since we now know the prelude to the malware incidents that occured in 2024 and in 2025, let's actually go over what we're here for hopefully: 
- Including the previously mentioned "Incident", there have been cases before in the Sims modding community where modding sites have used download redirectors that have had malicious ads.
- However, this was totally new for the community to deal with.
- There were several instances of these new malware attacks throughout 2024 and even into 2025. 
- The first incident occured around January and Febuary 2024. Several famous modders including MQSims, had their TSR and other fansite accounts compromised by an unknown attacker or attackers, who then proceeded to upload "updated" versions of several of their existing mods that unbeknownst to the community contained malware within its Python ts4script files, which I'll soon show you the contents of. It's important to note that MSQSims was relatively active during this time and they uploaded reguarly to TSR, making it unlikely that anyone would have noticed the attack until it was too late.
- There was also inciddents occuring at the same time of the same attacker(s) creating a new account on the fansite Mod the Sims that I mentioned earlier trying to impersonate the modder PimpMySims4. The account was name PimpMysims so it looked similar to the real modder's name. With that new account, they did a similar tactic to what they did with the compromised accounts by uploading a supposely updated mod (their Cult Mod) which again contained malware. At the time, PimpMySims4 was inactive since 2022 according to their Pateron, which was only updated after this first attack, apologising for their lack of activity and being completly unware of the attack. It is also important to note that this modder did not usually upload to Mod the Sims, instead preferring to use Tumblr and Pateron. It's not completly out of the question for modders to switch up where they upload their mods to - I've certainly switched up where to upload my mods before like switching from LiveJournal to Tumblr, but it's still very sispcious that after being inactive for over a year they would upload to a totally new site. I can see why someone would get tricked however. This account avoided scrunity from MTS until it was too late.
- If that wasn't enough, the attacker also created new accounts on CurseForge, again a popular modding website for not just the Sims 4 but for other games as well, completly unliked to any other modders.
- They uploaded one of the same compromised mods that they had uploaded during the compromise of MSQSims, using stolen images from the same modder. This was probaly the least likely to fool people - if they recongised the stolen images from a new user they wouldn't download it and hopefully report it.
- Compromised mods where also uploaded to NSFW mod sites.
- The attackers tried to hit a wide range of targets here, from compromising known and trusted modder's accounts to creating a couple of throwaway accounts and calling it a day. 
- Another incident occured with the same method of attack in November 2024 where two creators, TwistedMexi and MoxieMason, had their MTS accounts compromised. Again, this was from an unknown attacker - it's currently unclear if it was the same attacker from last time.
- Instead of using already existing ts4script files that had malware embedded within them along with the regular mod, the person behind the attack decided to create their own ts4script files, which if you opened up the mod might stick out, but might not be immediatly suscipious, and I doubt most people downloading mods are firing up Visual Studio Code or Vim to look at the new mods they downloaded.
- Again, it's important to note that both accounts were effectively abandoned, with TwistedMexi last uploading in 2018 and MoxieMason in 2012!
- TwistedMexi even had a note on their account stating that they prefer to upload their mods on their pateron and their own website. 
- All of the above attacks I've discussed have been surrounding Python malware, but there was a few other incidents where attackers just couldn't be arsed writing Python (I mean we've all been there!) and just stuck an exe file in a download from a compromised account of trusted modders again. They're kind of low effort and not that interesting so they'll remain a footnote, I'm giving them the same amount of effort they put in. 
## MALWARE SLIDE 
- Now that we've went over the main incidents, I'm going to show you the malware itself that caused so much panic. 
- As you can hopefully see on the screen this is a sample of the malware.
- It's only around 24 lines or so, and all you need to know is that it's bascially "baby's first malware".
- I've never wrote Windows malware before (the only malware I've ever written in my career and before you ask no it's not my code usually, was for a joke and done completly legally for the record was for MacOS) but I talked to a friend of mine who is a red teamer and does write Windows malware as part of his job for red teaming engagements and he was shocked at how bad the malware was. I had an inkling at how bad it was but I didn't know it was this bad. 
- CHATGPT MALWARE LOL
- If you were a red teamer and only if you're a red teamer and for the record I do not condone any illegal behaviour, you're not supposed to leave any trace of your malware, as it makes it easier to detect via things like Crowdstrike, and as you can see the very first thing it does is creates a batch file of all things (I'm feeling like I'm back in 2006) to download further malware. In this case, an infostealer that is most likely Redline according to my research from Discord. Hands up who works in security or security related jobs here? Even if you didn't put your hand up, this is the work of a script kiddie.
- In my friend's experience, if you're writing Windows malware, you'd want to take a bit more of a stealthy appraoch by hiding in a trusted process. So for example by creating a DLL file that is loaded by a trusted exe like thesims4.exe.
- The infostealer that I mentioned before was most likely Redline, which is pretty common to buy on the Dark Web for really cheap.
- Focused on stealing saved info from the brower, like saved credit cards and of course crypto wallets because in 2025 we can't go without stealing some crypto. 
## PANIC SLIDE 
- Now that we've went through the malware and how badly it was written, I want to talk a little bit more about the community response to these malware incidents.
- The initial response was one of panic. A lot of posts were made in places like the Sims 4 subreddit panicking over the malware. Some asked if it was safe to download any custom content at all, fearing that the malware would infect them, even for games that were not affected like for the Sims 2 and 3.
- Poeple also worried that these fansites like Mod the Sims were now unsafe to download from now, and even feared that the website itself was completly compromised. To these fansites' credit, they did implement countermeasures to vet new uploaders, and several fansites including TSR stopped the upload of script mods in the wake of these incidents temporarlily to stop the attackers from uploading more infected script files.
- In the midst of all of this worry, the community rallied together and provided support for each other, something the famously player friendly and not money grubbing EA did not do. EA does not get involved with the modding community unless something illegal happens and the company looks bad, like what happened with ColonelNutty, and this was no exception.
- The community created posts on Reddit and other sites like this that aimed to inform fellow members of affected downloads and provide updates to the situation. This helped to quell panic and helped anser any questions that people had. 
- A bit less interesting to us but one of the first responses to these malware attacks happened in Feburary 2024, where the owners of CurseForge, Overwolf, created a remover of the malware in C++. This is more of a medience than a prevention. Bascially, it attempts to find the malware's files and notifies the user if it finds anything, as well as removing the malicious file. 
- The second response that attempted to remove the malware and prevent any further infection was created again in Feb 2024 by the modder TwistedMexi. You may remember them from the November 2024 attack - maybe the malware "dev" (dev in quotation marks because I refuse to call that person a dev with how bad that code was) got peeved that they did something in retribution but who knows? 
- They wrote what was bascailly the first ts4script antivirus. This was all in Python. 
- I had to decompile this using a tool called PyLingual, as they were all complied Python files included in the ts4script.
- As you can see here, what this antivirus does is detect any ts4script files that have certain strings, which are obsfucated and deobfuscated by the anti-virus. The code checks for strings such as ".bat" or "discordapp.com/attachments". If those sound familiar, it's because we've seen these strings before in the malware!
- If these strings are detected, it alerts the user and blocks the infected mods, also presenting the file path for quick removal. It also reports back to the modder's website for further recording and detection. 
- The modder took a lot of time to obsufcate the strings that they were looking for and only included pyc files in order to prevent the atacker from trying to avoid detection. It's very simple however, doing a simple ASCII shift, only shifting by 1. I think the attacker we're discussing today would probaly be put off based on their skills or lack thereof, but it would be very easy for a more advanced attacker to get past this. I'm not saying an APT group is going to start hacking people who play Sims 4 but it would be very easy with a bit of effort and skill to bypass this protection. But it's still an amazing effort and the modder should be praised for their efforts to protect the community. 
- To summeralize what I just talked about, the community came together to protect themselves against this new way of spreading malware and did what EA couldn't do essentially. Given that these attacker or attackers in time gave up on their attempts to spread malware through ts4script files and just dumped an exe file in zips to get people to click them, I think they did a pretty good job! 
- On that note, I think it's also a pretty good time to thank you all for coming, and if you have any questions feel free to ask them now!
- Thanks! 
